Installation Steps

For building Yocto images, I will be using a Lenovo Thinkpad E420 from 2012. 
It has an i3 2350M (x86-64-v2) with 6GB RAM. It originally came with 4GB DDR3.
A 120GB SSD was installed a while back ("upgraded" from a 500GB HDD with 8KB cache).

Yocto 5.0 says around 90GB storage is needed and 8GB of RAM.
I estimate I will not need that much, so I will wing it.

I will be installing Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS. 
Ubuntu uses around 25GB. I should have around 85GB left over. 

https://ubuntu.com/download/desktop
I used an 8GB SD card with USB-SD adapter. The ISO file is 6GB

I used Raspberry Pi Imager to erase and flash the drive 
(it works remarkably well, despite Windows 10 errors saying otherwise)
This guide confirms 8GB fits: https://phoenixnap.com/kb/install-ubuntu-24-04

https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/

After installing Ubuntu, I have 99GB left over. Better than expected.

I used this tutorial to install the required files for Yocto:


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KpRzZ_JdVK8

I followed the YT video until it got to the part about installing/upgrading Python3.

So in the first section (up to around 0:30, I installed git, then tar. The commands for "sudo apt get install gawk wget..." weren't working so I jumped (back or forward) to the Part 2 tutorial, which seems to have filled in some of the blanks.

https://kickstartembedded.com/2021/12/19/yocto-part-2-setting-up-ubuntu-host/

$ sudo apt update

The first one worked, but it listed optional updates. I did not select them, although I might. (Edit: I got a prompt window asking to install 180MB+ of updates, so I selected yes)

$ sudo apt install git git-lfs tar python3 python3-pip gcc 

This installed the items that appeared to be in the 0:30 mark. Actually, I will return to the video tutorial:

The 0:32 mark gets a little confusiung because it's not clear if the command worked on the first line and then the sudo apt install without line breaks /  seems to be the correct formatting.

So I will resume copying the tutorial and include the ones from the webpage, possibly out of order. 

The video uses a slightly shorter command- it includes everything in the webpage up until :

"sudo apt install gawk wget git diffstat unzip texinfo gcc build-essential chrpath socat cpio python3 python3-pip python3-pexpect xz-utils debianutils iputils-ping python3-git python3-jinja2 libegl1-mesa libsdl1.2-dev pylint3 xterm"

When I tried to use the entire command, it said "command not found." Possiblky one of the instructions later on were not recognized, or incorrect, or both:

$ sudo apt install gawk wget git diffstat unzip texinfo gcc build-essential chrpath socat cpio python3 python3-pip python3-pexpect xz-utils debianutils iputils-ping python3-git python3-jinja2 libegl1-mesa libsdl1.2-dev pylint3 xterm python3-subunit mesa-common-dev zstd liblz4-tool

Maybe I will need to install the rest separately (it might be in the later part of the video.)

errors: unable to locate package libegl1-mesa
unable locate package pylint3 (possibly newer version and it got moved).

Also got an error: externally-managed-environment. This is probably a newb error (even this discussion points to a common workaround that is NOT recommended: https://discuss.python.org/t/the-most-popular-advice-on-the-internet-for-error-externally-managed-environment-is-to-force-packages-to-be-system-installed/56900)

So I guess I need to figure out which packages are official python and which are not authorized, at least to be run system wide, and should look into the virtual enviornment option.



It's for an A5 board, the Jupiter Nano. Copying this tutorial will allow me to get familiar with the autopopulating directories of Yocto and its related tools. Then I will move to a different ISA, most likely.
